\section{Design}

\subsection{Context}

At a very high-level, the backup system's context defines the boundaries of
functionality, where those boundaries define interactions with other systems.

Given the nature of the backup system, however, this type of interaction is
minimal. That said, it is possible to draw clear lines between the system
itself and, for example, external authentication mechanisms with which the
system may interact when validating a user's credentials at login.

\subsection{Architecture}

The architecture of the system is similar to that of the open-source
\emph{Bacula} project, in that it is organised into separate modules. Figure
\ref{fig:architecture} shows the high-level layout of the design, with arrows
to represent the flow of data.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \begin{center}
        \input{architecture}
    \end{center}
    \caption{System Architecture Diagram}
    \label{fig:architecture}
\end{figure}

At the centre of the system is the server d{\ae}mon, \emph{backtracserverd}.
It is this program that maintains a connection to the client d{\ae}mon,
\emph{backtracd}, which is installed and running on each protected client.

The server d{\ae}mon also has access to a database, which is used to store not
only the meta-data relating to files protected by the system, but also to the
hosts that it protects. Figure \ref{fig:erd} shows the entity-relationship
diagram for the database.

The \emph{storage} subsystem provides an interface for the server d{\ae}mon to
read and write files to the physical disk, whilst not explicitly choosing their
location or name. This level of abstraction provides extensibility, should
a future implementation change be desired (for example, cloud storage).

The web interface (denoted as \emph{backtracweb} in figure
\ref{fig:architecture}) allows the administrator to manage and monitor all
aspects of the backup system. The application has read and write access to the
database so clients can be added or altered, and existing clients can be
inspected. Also, read-only access to the storage interface is permitted,
allowing the administrator to download files from the archive through the web
browser.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \begin{center}
        \input{erd}
    \end{center}
    \caption{Entity-Relationship Diagram}
    \label{fig:erd}
\end{figure}

